Interview asked questions?

1. Question - What's java internally use(call by value and call by reference)?
Ans - Java internally use call by value.	
2. What's your project requirement     Question from            interviewer
3. Can you explain briefly about your Java experience?
4. What role do you play in the team?
5. Can you explain the architecture of your current project? And what technologies stack are you using?
6. Is project based on a waterfall model or agile model?
7. Of all the projects your worked so far, what project are you particularly proud about and why?
8. What is the difference between StringBuffer and StringBuilder ?
9. How can you convert a String of comma separated values that were imported from a CSV file into an Array ?
10. Now how can you remove the duplicates from this Array ?
11. After removing the duplicates, how can you convert the Array of Strings back to a single String without commas ?
12. After removing the duplicates, how can you convert the Array of Strings back to a single String sepeated by dashes ?
13. Difference between SOAP and REST WebServices
14. What is an index with respect to database?
15. Why should we use indexing on database?
16. When will the indexing have inferior performance?
17. I have a customer table with name, id, state and salary. How can you find sum of all the salaries of all the customers per state?
18. How can you find sum of all the salaries of all the customers per state where each of the individual salary is greater than 60K?
19. What is caching? What should be your consideration for designing a caching mechanism?
20. If you were to implement your own caching mechanism what would some of the API calls look like?
21. Do you have any prior experience working in JBOSS Drools? or any workflow engines?
22. Do you have any questions for us?
23. find number, character, string from given string?
24. difference between jar and war
25. reflection
26. what is volitile
27. why java is immutable
28. how to create immutable class in java - https://www.journaldev.com/129/how-to-create-immutable-class-in-java

24. Difference b/w SVN and Github?
25. web server and application server
26. what is retro spective


Barcles asked question - 

1. What is HashMap?
2. If two String have same value and if we store it in Map as a key then what will happen?
3. Difference between ArrayList & LinkedList?
4. Internal working of ArrayList?
5. Difference between synchronization method & synchronization block and which one you prefer?
6. If one class have 2 mthod m1 & m2 and I am calling these through two threads then will it work?
7. If one class have 2 method m1 & m2 with one static method and I am calling these methods through two Threads then will it work?
8. Difference between Component, Service & Repository annotation in Spring?
9. Explain above Spring annotation?
10. Which implementation did you use for Restful Web Service?
11. Difference between GET & POST request method?
12. Can we send empty body in POST request method?
13. Configuration of Servlet in web.xml for Restful Web Service?
14. Explain OOP’s concept?
15. They will pickup any oops pillar and ask you question on it in deep? Mostly logical questions?
16. Overriding and Overloading rules and will give you 3-4 scenarios on same.
17. Will check your coding conversions and program structure.
18. Decorator design pattern and Factory pattern explanation.
19. Hashmap and Hashtable diff.?
20. Why Hashcode and equals method ?
21. Hibernate : States of Objects in hibernate?
22. Spring : in which modules u have worked in spring?
23. Which type of configuration you have used in Spring?(XML/Annotation).
24. Asked about @Bean , @Autowired  Annotations?
25. Scenario of Autowiring when two same object’s are to be injected. ?(use of qualifier)
26. What is adapter pattern tell me with example and where you will use this in TaxCalculator application?
27. Scopes of Beans in spring?
28. What is REST And SOAP?What you did consumed or produced?
29. Which implementation you have used in REST?
30. What are the methods of HTTP ?
31. Write Complex object representation in JSON format?
32. How we can extends this TaxCalculator application?

1.	Explain OOP’s concept?
2.	They will pickup any oops pillar and ask you question on it in deep? Mostly logical questions?
3.	Overriding and Overloading rules and will give you 3-4 scenarios on same.
4.	Will check your coding conversions and program structure.
5.	Decorator design pattern and Factory pattern explanation.
6.	Hashmap and Hashtable diff.?
7.	Why Hashcode and equals method ?
8.	Hibernate : States of Objects in hibernate?
9.	Spring : in which modules u have worked in spring?
10.	Which type of configuration you have used in Spring?(XML/Annotation).
11.	Asked about @Bean , @Autowired  Annotations?
12.	Scenario of Autowiring when two same object’s are to be injected. ?(use of qualifier)
13.	What is adapter pattern tell me with example and where you will use this in TaxCalculator application?
14.	Scopes of Beans in spring?
15.	What is REST And SOAP?What you did consumed or produced?
16.	Which implementation you have used in REST?
17.	What are the methods of HTTP ?
18.	Write Complex object representation in JSON format?
19.	How we can extends this TaxCalculator application?




#1. Design a class diagram where Vehicle is parent and having two child class 2Wheeler and 4Wheeler.
#2. Runtime Polymorphism with example
#3. Your project architecture and its flow.
#4. Design Patterns, Specially Singleton with code example.
#5. Hibernate SessionFactory, Session Classes, Difference between get and load method.
#6. How to handle transaction and at what layer we will use transaction.
#7. How we can sort a list of Employee class base on name and id. What is difference between Comparable and Comparator.
#8. What are the changes we need to do to convert MVC flow to Rest flow. 
#9. What is Hashing Techniques and do we need to override hash method for TreeSet.
#10. What is Constructor-arg and Property in Spring.


Asked Interview Questions (Dev Ram)
#1. what are access modifier? Can controller method be private?

#2. explain exception hierarchy?
#3. what is difference between rdbms and nosql database?
#4. how to handle transaction management in sql and nosql?

#5. does nosql support ACID properties?

#6. what are the ways to bootstrap angular application?

#7. how to notifiy changes in one controller to others in angular?

#8. how to share variable between two controller in angular?
#9. what are solid properties? 
#10. what are different verbs in spring?
#11. what are new features added in java 7?

Asked Interview Questions (Vynkatesh)
1)   what is Java 7 and 8 features ?
2)   what is difference between hashmap and linkedhashmap ?
3)   how many types of design patterns ?
4)   what is stream api ?
5)   what is lambda functions?
6)   java SAX and DOM parser?
7)   explain briefly exception hierarchy?
8)   what is custom exception?
9)   how many interfaces in Collections framework ?
10)  what is solid principles in java ?
11) Explain gang of 4 in design pattern?



Sunil:
1. Explain about your work experience and role you played in the last project.
2. Explain about your last project with an architechture and flow.
3. How did you manage session in the last project?
4. How did you secure REST API in the last project?
5. Why we use Spring framework?
6. Explain Spring IOC and DI.
7. How will you designe architechture of Spring REST API for below example:
   Company
   Exmployee
   Salary
8. Asked scenarios based question in above example:
   Design service to get Company's Employee.
   Design service to get Employee's salary.
9. What are the scope of the spring bean? and explain each.
10. Can we use request scoped bean into signleton bean?
11. What will happen if we use request scoped bean into signleton bean?
12. Can we use signleton bean into request scoped bean?
13. Have you worked on Persistance layer framework?
14. How you apply lazyloading in spring?
15. What is jenkin?
16. What did you do in jenkin?
17. Have you worked in Angular JS?
18. Have you worked on Maven?


Nitin:
1. Explain about your work experience and technoloties you have worked on in the last project.
2. Explain about your last project with an architechture and flow.
3  How will you achive configration of different framwork in your project and explain step by step the layer of its implementation.
4. Why we use Spring framework?
5. Explain Spring IOC and DI and where to use it?
6. What are the scope of the spring bean? and explain each.
7. How will you designe architechture of Spring REST API with Hibernate for below example:
   Company
   Exmployee
   Salary
8. Asked scenarios based question in above example related to DI:
   How will autowired dependices between Comapny and different types of Employees (using Interface or Class)?
9. What is bean life cycle?
10. How to intialize bean?
11. How to make lazy loading in Spiring IOC?
12. What are the attributes of spring beans? and can we decalre bean without id?
13. What is proxy in AOP? Have you used in your project?
14. What is jenkin?
15. What did you do in jenkin?
16. What are the UI technologies you have worked in?
17. Have you worked in JavaScrpit and HTML?
18. Have you worked on Maven?
19. How to declare function in javascript?
20. How to call an AJAX call using javascript?






Best links for preparation - 

java interview questions link - https://java2blog.com/core-java-interview-questions-and-answers/
Abstract and interfacte topic - https://beginnersbook.com/2013/05/abstract-class-vs-interface-in-java/
Oops best real time example - https://www.beginnersbook.in/2017/09/real-time-examples-of-java-oops-concepts.html
Collection difference all questions - https://www.javatpoint.com/java-collections-interview-questions
WildCard Best example link - https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/wildcards-in-java/
hashcode link - https://eclipsesource.com/blogs/2012/09/04/the-3-things-you-should-know-about-hashcode/
